One of my favorite tools again
being an infrastructure is Babel.
I just like it.
Probably a glutton for
punishment, I suppose.
But it's a transpiler tool.
It takes code that looks one way and
it makes it look a different way.
And that's really the some of
the store it's not a compiler, right?.
You're not taking like a C++ source
code and compiling it to a binary.
That's compilation translation is,
I have a set of source code and
I'm making it just different source code.
So, Babel is already working for
us underneath the hood.
One of the things that it does for us,
you can write things in es 2021, and
it'll transpile Harder for
you to IES 2015.
So it still works in Internet Explorer.
However, we have some advanced needs.
And so typically you wouldn't
have to mess with this, and
I would say probably soon with parcel too,
you won't have to do this.
So if you're using parcel tool,
you can just ignore this section.
But if you have to modify Babel, you
can just drop in the Babel RC file, and
parcel will automatically read that for
you.
And change how your Babel is working.
So I want you to make a new file here.
In the adopt me directory.
Called .babelrc.
So you can see here outside of my source
directory I have a file called .babelrc.
And we're going to add just a little
bit of configuration, to make
it use the latest version of JSX, which
is something we're about to start doing.
So here,
you're gonna make an empty object.
We're gonna do presets,
and it has a array.
And the 1st one we're going to put
in there is @babble/preset -react.
This is actually gonna be
inside of an array itself.
Okay, inside of that array
with it is gonna be an object.
And we have to put run
time Colin automatic.
Let's make this a little
bit better format, and
it's kind of a mess to configure Babel.
I don't know why they chose
this style of configuration.
But we have presets which is a list
of presets that we have in there.
This will be getting merged
with the ones that parcel has.
A parcel has other presets
that it's putting in there for
you like one called M,
which is very important.
We don't have to read Eclair that here.
We just have to say like here's the things
that we have that are different.
Here we're gonna bring in this babelrc
preset react which again, it already has.
But we need to have this
configuration of runtime automatic.
This allows us to do the most
recent version of JSX.
Which I'll explain to you once we start
seeing it, but this is important for
us to get started.
Okay, the next thing that we need to do,
I'm gonna stop my server.
You can stop your parcel server
at any time by hitting Ctrl C.
And we need to do npm install -D @babel.
/core@7.12.16.@babel/preset-react@7.12.13.
So we have to give it
the node modules that it's
going to use to do that translation.
Okay, so now,
if you go look at your package.json,
you'll see here that we have babel and
babel preset-react.
And now we have via this babel RC,
every time that parcel runs,
it's gonna be using this configuration for
our presets.
For react, we'll modify this more
in the future here in the course.
But for now, this is enough for
us to get started.
We've basically set up what create
react app sets up for you, but
it's going to be catered to our needs.
Exactly.
And now you're going to understand every
tool that's gone into your tool chain.
>> I have a quick question about one of
the files generated in the dist folder?.
What's the dot map doing exactly?.
>> What Babel are.
Sorry, what parcel is doing for
you is you have this dist directory.
And this is the files that you would
actually send out to production, right.
And so you can see here they have long
funky names and all that kind of stuff.
But you notice that like your index,
HTML, references, everything correctly.
This is all the stuff that
parcel is generating for you.
So the 1st answer to your question
is you don't have to care.
[LAUGH].
It's actually not important to you, but
to answer your questions,
they have these funky map files.
Because we're doing this
in development mode,
what we wanna be able to do is inside of
Firefox or Edge or Chrome or whatever.
We wanna be able to see the source files,
not the distribution files.
And the map files
reference the source files.
So that when I'm looking at the code
inside of the dev tools in Chrome or
Firefox.
It's showing me the real source code and
not the generated code.
They're called source maps.
>> I mean coding.
>> Yes, that's precisely what they're for.
You should not ship these to production.
Right?.
Otherwise, you're linking
off your source source code.
Last thing that I promise we're going to
start writing some more react, I promise.
I want you to go back into
your package dot JSON
somewhere in here,
I'm just going to put it last.
I want you to create a property called,
browsers.
Browser list.
Make sure that as browsers
with an S I always forget it.
It's browsers Plural list.
This is how you identify to babble and
parcel.
I'm targeting these browsers.
So this is an array of all
the browsers that you want to target.
Because this is just a development course,
and it's just you and
me working on this and we're not
shipping this to production ever.
I'm just gonna say last 2 chrome versions,
which is to say,
very new JavaScript don't transpile for
really old browsers.
This is not what you'd want to do
in your production applications.
And by the way, you can put Firefox or
something like that.
Whatever you want that to be, ends up for
the purpose of this
code was not mattering.
But we'll put the last two
chrome versions there.
Now, if you needed to target,
I don't know, IE11, there's a bunch of
them here that you can put here of like,
I don't think this one works.
But I think he can put
something like this.
I wanna target most people in the world
which you would do with something like
this, or don't target opera or
anything like that.
We're not gonna get into browsers.
That's exactly what it does.
But here we're just telling
it last 2 chrome versions,
because we just don't want
it to transpire a lot.
We're gonna be using modern browsers.
So we're just gonna stick to that.
If you wanna find out more about that
you can just go to browserslist.dev.
So if I put last 2 chrome
versions like that.
It'll tell you everything
that you're targeting.
Right now I'm covering 30%
of the world's population.
That's objectively terrible.
Do not ship your applications like that.
But I'm part of that 30% population
right now, so it works for me.
But this will help you with.
Various different strings,
to figure out what you wanna put there.
Okay, that's the end of the tool section.
You survived,
you can get the back to react now.
So again, we have a Point here, if you
go down to the bottom of browsers list.
There's this part here,
you can click on this, just come in here,
run npm install and you will be off to
the races with all the tools you install.
Already.
>> So from the browser list is Babel and
parser required or
can you specify that without them?.
>> You will need some tool that pays
attention to what browsers list Is.
So for examples, post CSS is another
tool that pays attention to it.
But you would need something
that's going to read it.
So it's just kind of
like a top level tool,
telling various other tools,
what you're trying to target.
So Babel is one of
the tools that read that.
So in this particular case,
if you didn't have Babel and parcel,
nothing would happen.